Consistent Navigation (#96)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-change-raml-version.adoc

* HTTP API
* SOAP API

This document describes how to change the version for any of these assets.

Each API asset contains a *Version* field for the asset version, and an *API version* field for the version of the API specification. For RAML, OAS, and SOAP assets, the API specification version is coded inside the specification itself.

Exchange asset versions follow the https://semver.org/[Semantic Versioning] model of major, minor, and patch releases. For example, if an asset is version 2.4.6, then its major version is 2.x.x, its minor version is 2.4.x, and its patch version is 2.4.6.

> Because an HTTP API asset is an endpoint, to which you can provide only policies or proxies, the *API version* field doesn't apply. HTTP APIs have only major version increases and do not have minor or patch version changes.

Reviewer: reading it, I don't remember why we wrote `the *API version* field doesn't apply` because the API Version is a field that is part of the HTTP APIs (but is true that only major version changes)

Author: Looks like old incorrect text. Fixed.

> The *Version* and *API version* fields are visible only when you add a new asset or when you add a new version to an existing asset.

Reviewer: The same with this one. Those are fields that are visible in the portal, but I don't remember why we wrote that 🤔

Author: Good catch. Removed.

image::ex-publish-a-new-asset.png[]

> Only change the API version when an updated API specification has changes that are not backwards compatible from the new version to the old version.

Reviewer 2: I had to look this up....
```suggestion
Only change the API version when an updated API specification has changes that are not backward compatible from the new version to the old version.
```

== Multiple API and Asset Versions

> Each Exchange asset can have multiple asset versions. The REST, SOAP, and HTTP API also contain an API Version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Exchange asset can have multiple asset versions. The REST, SOAP, and HTTP API also contain an API version.
```

strategy. This includes a multiple month deprecation schedule and documentation that 
is up to date and describes the change in sufficient level of detail. 

Not all changes require a new version. APIs designed for backward compatibility

> normally do not require major changes, and should use minor or patch changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
normally do not require major changes and should use minor or patch changes.
```

|Accessibility |Restrict permissions |Relax permissions
|===

=== When to Introduce a New Major Version

You should introduce a new major version for:

> * Quality of service (QoS) -- When a change affects the quality of service, such as response time and availability, the major version and API version may need to change as the QoS can break applications that use the API.

Reviewer 2: Please GLOBALLY adopt the style reference rule of limiting list items and steps to one sentence or fragment max, and not ever using spaces with hyphens as text separators:
```suggestion
* Quality of service (QoS)
When a change affects the quality of service, such as response time and availability, you might need to change the major version and API version so that the QoS does not disable applications that use the API.
```

> * Output message domain value changes -- Applications that use the API depend on the domain of values of fields in response messages. For instance, the API may only return certain products or specific payment methods. If the API starts returning values outside of a domain, it can adversely affect existing consumers. In this case, consider introducing a new major version and a new API version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Output message domain value changes
Applications that use the API depend on the domain of values of fields in response messages. For instance, the API might return only certain products or specific payment methods. If the API starts returning values outside of a domain, it can adversely affect existing consumers. In this case, consider introducing a new major version and a new API version.
```

=== When to Change Version Numbers

> * Major versions: When introducing a change in the structure of the API that requires the user of the API to adapt the interface on the consumer side, such as a new required operation argument.

Reviewer 2: DITTO re. list items:
```suggestion
* Major versions
When introducing a change in the structure of the API that requires the user of the API to adapt the interface on the consumer side, such as a new required operation argument
```

> * Minor versions: When introducing a backward-compatible change to the API that does not require an API user to change, such as a new optional element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Minor versions
When introducing a backward-compatible change to the API that does not require an API user to change, such as a new optional element
```

> * Patch versions: When introducing a backward-compatible bug fix or documentation update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Patch versions
When introducing a backward-compatible bug fix or documentation update
```

== Document an API Version

Exchange provides documentation pages with information about an asset for API consumers. 
You can create different documentation pages for each minor asset version.

> The minor asset version that is being edited can be changed with the menu next to the API name.

Reviewer 2: Intentional passive voice?

Author: No, I just didn't do enough rewriting from the existing version. Fixed. Thanks!
